Well come in in this lesson we are going to be looking at primitive data types so these are the most
basic building blocks of programming languages and we're going to be looking at specifically strings
numbers and booleans so strings are a representation of a set of characters.
I've opened up my Chrome browser opened up dev tools and gone to the tab console and this gives me a
place where I can actually write javascript with correct creating any source files.
So this gives lets me use the runtime within the browser.
That basically renders the code instantly so I can do things like what we saw before where I type in
hello and I can see that that gets rendered immediately.
So we wanted to look at strings and strings are essentially a representation of a consecutive set of
characters wrapped with quotes.
So we saw that when we placed this alert we've got this.
Hello here.
So this is actually a string.
And also what strings can also include spaces that can include numbers and any name any character that's
available within
your reach you can add in here and added in as a string.
So let's take a little world and notice that I've got a space in there so I've wrapping it with quotes
and we get returned back that value that gets returned back.
So essentially this is a string value and it's as simple as that to hold a string of values.
Now we also need to make sure that the courts match because up here if you use a single code up here
over here I've used a double quote.
So you could use either one or you can also use single quotes and you can see that the returned result
comes back as double quotes because this is the returned result.
So it doesn't distinguish between single and double.
It just returns back.
That adds a string value.
So that's the important thing to know.
With Strings and when you are using quotes make sure that you use the same one because if you're not
finishing off with the same one that you open that worth then you're going to get an error and it's
the program actually isn't going to know what to do.
So make sure that those match.
So we know with programming everything is broken down into really simple units and that's where primitive
data types.
It's important to understand what's available and what you have to work with.
When we are programming we are creating a set of instructions and we need something in order to describe
the things within the code within those instructions.
And that's where we come across different data types.
So predominantly we've got a few basic primitive data types and then everything else in javascript are
objects.
So next let's look at numbers.
So numbers are very similar to strings but we're limited to only digits within numbers so we can do
any number that we want and we can see that number gets returned back.
We can do a four point four.
So it doesn't matter if you've got decimal places if you've got fractions.
You can see that everything gets returned back and it actually returns it back as a decimal point.
So we have for over 8 or Also 4 divided by 8.
So we return back zero point five so we can have fractional numbers.
We can have decimal numbers.
We can also have negative numbers so it doesn't matter.
All of them are counted as numbers and that's the type of value the primitive data type that we're looking
at.
When it comes to numbers so I do have a trick question for you.
So we saw earlier that strings have quotes around them.
So what if we have a number and we've got quotes around them.
So what data type is that is not a number or is not a string.
And if you've answered string then you're correct.
Because as soon as we placed those quotes the knot stops stops being a number it's just being a numeric
value and it actually turns into a string.
And we're going to look more.
We're going to look more into this as we progress through the upcoming lessons.
When we look at variables and how we can hold various numbers within our variables and also various
string values within our variables.
So what I want you to do now is take a moment before we jump into variables and open up your browser.
Open up your console and try out writing out different string values and also different number of values
and check it for yourself.
And in the next lesson we're going to be jumping into
variables.
So that's coming up.